Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to explain an action, adventure,
comedy, science fiction, and fantasy film
called “Love and Monsters."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In a futuristic world, the earth is experiencing
a monster apocalypse caused by the destruction
of a big asteroid, Agatha 6-1-6, and rockets
fired by humans in hopes of breaking it apart.
The chemical compounds rained back down on
the surface, making some animals mutate into
cold-blooded monsters and wipe out most of
humanity.
Since then, the remaining people live in hiding,
mostly in underground bunkers, caves, and
panic rooms.
The groups of people living under these conditions
are called “colonies.”
Among the survivors is Joel Dawson, an orphaned
teenager who lives in a bunker with several
people.
Inside the place they call home, they grow
vegetables, tend to a cow for dairy supply,
and hunt the remaining food whenever they
go outside.
Joel feels a sense of loneliness inside the
bunker.
He is the only resident who is single; living
with couples makes him miss his girlfriend,
Aimee, who got separated from him during the
apocalypse.
To pass the time, he does target practice
for fun.
In one of his sessions, he hears rumbling
noises from above which alarms everyone that
a creature may be near.
Among the top fighters are Anna Lucia, Ray,
Tim, Connor, and Anderson, who refuse to let
Joel join them because of his lack of fighting
abilities.
Upon his exit, Connor kisses his wife, Kala,
while Joel is still scared of the breach.
On a monitor, the rest of the residents watch
the movements, where one of the fighters gets
eaten.
Willing to help his friends, Joel follows
them despite his fears and lack of practice.
Slowly, he walks to the exit, where a gigantic
insect-like creature hides behind the curtain.
It gradually comes nearer, close enough to
kill him, but Joel can't move because of his
reactive immobility, which causes him to freeze
when he is afraid.
To his surprise, the monster dies after Anna
Lucia shoots it just in time.
Flashback to seven years ago, Joel and Aimee
go on a car date on the top of a hill where
Aimee gives him art materials.
In the middle of their intimate moment, they
see flare guns fired at a great distance,
causing them to be alarmed and leave.
To escape from the horrors of the present
time, Joel has developed a love for drawing
and coloring.
In great detail, he illustrates the monsters
that he has seen in the last seven years using
Aimee’s gift and takes notes of how to kill
them.
Despite him and Aimee being apart for such
a long time, they still communicate through
the radio and make the most out of what they
have.
While on call, Aimee’s line gets disrupted
due to a bad signal, cutting their conversation
abruptly.
On that same night, as Kala grieves over Connor’s
death, Joel recalls the day of the apocalypse
where he and Aimee shared their last embrace,
which gives him the idea of actually reuniting
with her.
He brings this up during their colony meeting,
but the members warn him that the journey
is dangerous and it would take him at least
a week to get there.
Determined to be with the love of his life,
Joel disregards their comments and packs his
things along with other weapons for defense.
For the first time in years, Joel finally
basks in the sun and breathes fresh air.
He takes some moments to let the fact that
he is out in the open sink in before studying
the map and starting his journey on foot.
Along the way, he sees the world in ruins
and in complete disaster.
Not long after, he comes across a house where
he enters to check if there are any signs
of life.
He opens a fridge near the entrance and gets
frightened by a noise from inside it, so he
runs to the backyard, where a mossy pool is
located.
Three sets of eyes look at him from the water
before a giant toad reveals itself, trying
to stick its tongue on Joel.
Luckily, a stray dog named Boy saves him,
which gives him time to run away, but it gets
a hold of him and drags him toward its mouth.
Boy bites the monster toad’s tongue, making
Joel free as they run away to a small van,
which is the dog’s shelter.
He spends the night in the minivan and resumes
his journey, but this time, with a friendly
companion.
They immediately start to make their way through
a forest, where Joel falls into a deep hole
full of skeletons.
He later finds out that the pit is infested
with worm monsters, but a rope comes from
above, rescuing him.
Two other survivors, Clyde and Minnow, finish
off the remaining monsters called Sand Gobblers
in the hole by throwing an explosive inside
after introducing themselves to Joel.
He asks the duo if he could tag along, given
that they are quite skilled in slaying monsters,
to which Clyde agrees.
All of them continue to get to know each other;
Minnow, who recently lost her father, is now
under the care of Clyde, who also lost his
child.
Clyde reminds Joel that he should learn more
about fighting and survival for him to keep
up with them.
He then surveys the area if there are any
monsters around and reveals that a “Chumbler”
is following Joel’s scent, and they should
not waste any time.
Advancing to the woods, Minnow mocks Joel
for not having any valuable skills and for
having a girlfriend.
While Clyde explains that Minnow is outspoken
because she has been through a lot.
Out of nowhere, Clyde’s expression puts
Joel under the idea that a monster is behind
him, so he freezes again.
Clyde instructs him to remove his shirt, but
it takes time for him to do it because of
his panic attack.
Once he hands over his shirt, he turns around
to see a humongous snail leaving them alone
after Clyde puts Joel’s shirt by its shell.
Minnow then informs him that not all monstrous
creatures are hostile, telling him, “You
can always tell in their eyes.”
According to Clyde, the snail is a blessing
in disguise because it now has Joel’s scent,
leading the Chumbler away from them.
They stopover at a nearby cave; Joel shows
his illustrations to Clyde, adding notes to
his descriptions.
He shares a bit of his parents, which puts
him in a gloomy mood just as they are about
to head to their next location.
For the next few days, Minnow trains Joel
to become more precise in shooting with a
bow, and the two of them become closer.
Clyde also teaches him basic survival skills
that he missed out on in the last years and
lessons on which monsters to look out for.
Eventually, they have to part ways as Joel
needs to find Aimee while Clyde and Minnow
find more safety in the mountains.
The two insist on Joel staying with them,
but he loves Aimee so much that he would rather
risk his life seeking her.
They split up and go in opposite directions
right after Clyde gives him a grenade if ever
he needs it.
Deep into the woods, Boy becomes terrified,
sensing that danger is coming their way.
It hides under a boat, but just as Joel comes
to get him out, he sees tentacles coming from
below the ground.
Fearfully, he brings out his crossbow, but
the monster smacks him out of the way and
sees that Boy is trapped by a giant centipede
while it still takes cover.
He realizes that he is freezing at the moment
despite his desire to get up and save his
dog.
Dramatically, he recalls the tragic accident
that happened to his parents that entrapped
them inside the car.
This caused his mother and father to be crushed
to death by one of the monsters on the day
of the apocalypse.
Joel snaps out of his fear and kills the centipede
with his crossbow.
Boy happily runs to him and is comforted by
Joel’s embrace.
On a rainy night, they find shelter in an
abandoned motel where a robot named Mavis
activates.
Joel used to own these robots back when he
was still in the bunker, making him aware
of how to interact with it.
The artificial intelligence of Mavis is exceptional
and highly human-like.
It even offers him its remaining power supply
for Joel to fix his radio for him to contact
Aimee again briefly.
He uses the robot’s system to power the
radio, and he finally reaches Aimee, but their
conversation ends abruptly because of the
limited power source.
Mavis has 15 more minutes before her battery
completely dies, so they both sit outside
while it shows him a slideshow of his parents.
Realizing that he has not overcome grief,
he sobs in the arms of Mavis while they watch
vibrant Sky Jellies that are harmless.
Despite the rather sweet moment, Mavis shuts
down, and Joel needs to continue his journey.
The following morning, Joel and Boy come across
another hole, where Sand Gobblers usually
stay.
They quickly walk away from it, but Joel sees
a creature emerging from the ground from behind—a
queen Sand Gobbler.
It chases them relentlessly into the woods,
causing Joel to crash near a river, but he
and Boy manage to hide in an empty tree trunk.
The sound-sensitive monster comes right behind
them, but it crawls away after thinking that
no one is there.
Once the coast is clear, Boy barks after spotting
its safety blanket blown by the wind, giving
away its position.
The monster crawls quickly back to them, but
Joel manages to kill the queen sand gobbler
with the only grenade he has.
It blasts into pieces, making Joel succeed
with another kill.
He ends up in the river and swims back to
land only to find poisonous leeches all around
his body.
After removing all of it, he yells at Boy
for putting both of them in danger, causing
the dog to run away.
The leeches have caused Joel to hallucinate
and lie on the ground.
At this moment, he struggles to feel in control
of his body when Aimee appears out of nowhere.
At last, he feels more successful than ever
but becomes unconscious again because of the
severe poison.
He gains full consciousness in Aimee’s colony,
where she leads a group of elderly survivors
who heavily rely on her.
Unlike his colony, theirs is located on a
beach and is more spacious.
Outside, he meets Dana, Rocko, and Brooks,
who they all call Cap, who takes the lead
in his colony on a yacht.
While Aimee packs her things to leave their
unsafe colony, she confesses that she is glad
to reunite with Joel but has become a whole
different person, and she is still mourning
someone.
Taken aback by her confession, Joel realizes
that Aimee cannot reciprocate the love that
he has for her.
Moments later, Cap, his crew, and the rest
of the colony discuss their descent the following
day, but Joel is still unconvinced about the
idea.
Because of this, he uses a radio to contact
his colony, and one of the elderly serves
him some food, ordered by the captain.
While waiting for the radio to reach the other
end, he looks at the map that his colony has
made for him; in there, he finds heartfelt
messages from them and realizes that it is
where he truly belongs.
Finally, he reaches his colony to update them
about his adventure and learns that it has
become extremely unsafe and that they too
must leave.
He makes up his mind that he should leave
and packs up his stuff.
However, the food served to him catches his
attention; he browses through pages of his
book and finds out that the berries are poisonous,
which means that Cap has bad intentions toward
Aimee’s colony.
He runs to warn Aimee, but she gets knocked
unconscious because of the drinks, as well
as the elderly.
Just as she is about to pass out, Dana punches
him, causing him to blackout.
The next day, Joel, Aimee, and the rest of
her colony wake up as captives tied up on
the beach.
Cap reveals that his crew is there to steal
food and supplies since their yacht is towed
by a gigantic crab monster controlled with
an electric chain.
He releases the crab to feed on the old colonists,
but Joel and Aimee free themselves.
The agitated Aimee charges at Rocko after
she dodges his shots.
The crab runs toward Joel, but he manages
to keep it at a distance.
He then has the opportunity to kill it, but
Cap electrocutes the creature, causing Joel
to be thrown across the beach.
The creature becomes more agitated, and just
as the commotion gets bigger, Boy returns
to help.
As Dana and Aimee still get on with their
brawl, Cap becomes more impatient and decides
to deal with the matter in his own hands,
knocking Aimee down.
Joel finds the opportunity to kill the crab
after it picks him up, but he realizes that
it is neither dangerous nor hostile by looking
into its eyes, so he shoots the electrified
chain, completely freeing it.
The giant crab leaves Joel and the colony
unharmed and instead kills Cap and the crew,
sinking the rundown yacht in the process.
Now that they are all safe, he bids goodbye
to Aimee and shares a romantic kiss before
leaving with Boy.
Aimee promises that she will find him, and
just like that, they part ways once again.
Feeling accomplished, he treks back to the
bunker, where his colony is ecstatic to see
him safe.
They all decide to head to the mountains,
tired of hiding underground.
On the radio, Joel tells his story and inspires
other colonies to go back to the surface.
As everyone makes their way north, Clyde and
Minnow, who are already in the mountains,
listen to him as well, jokingly wondering
if Joel can survive the next journey.